\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename milkyway.info
@settitle Milkyway N-Body Manual 1.0
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c %**end of header


@copying

@author{} Matt Arsenault
@today{}
Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
@end copying


@titlepage
@title Milkyway N-Body Manual

@c The following two commands start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of contents at the beginning.
@contents



@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Short Sample

This is a short sample Texinfo file.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* First Chapter::    The first chapter is the
                       only chapter in this sample.
* Index::            Complete index.
@end menu


@node Building
@chapter Building
@cindex build
@cindex cmake

@section

Milkyway N-Body uses CMake.
From the command line,

@code{$ cmake /path/to/milkywayathome_client -DBUILD_OPTION=Value}

@code{$ make}

Alternatively cmake-gui can be used. For more information refer to the
CMake documentation.


@section Optional Dependencies
@table @samp
@item OpenSSL
Used for some tests
@item GLUT, OpenGL
Used for visualizer / screensaver
@item ncurses
Used for optional progress reporting
@item OpenCL
GPU version
@item OpenMP
Multithreaded version
@item BOINC
BOINC libraries
@end table

@section Build Options
@cindex cmake
@cindex build
Build options can be passed to cmake on the command line with
-D@var{option name}=@var{value} or checked if using cmake-gui

@multitable @columnfractions .3 .15 .55
@headitem Option @tab Default @tab Description
@item CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE
@tab ``Release''
@tab Choose the type of build, options are: Debug Release RelWithDebInfo MinSizeRel Profile.
@item BOINC_APPLICATION
@tab ON
@tab Build with BOINC.
@item DOUBLEPREC
@tab ON
@tab Use double precision
@item NBODY_OPENMP
@tab ON*
@tab Use OpenMP for threading (* OFF if not supported by compiler)
@item NBODY_OPENCL
@tab OFF
@tab Build with OpenCL
@item NBODY_CRLIBM
@tab ON
@tab Use crlibm for math functions
@item NBODY_GL
@tab OFF
@tab Build visualizer/screensaver
@item ENABLE_CURSES
@tab ON*
@tab Build with NCurses for progress reporting. On if available and not @var{BOINC_APPLICATION}
@item NBODY_STATIC
@tab OFF
@tab Build as a static binary
@end multitable


@node Basic Usage
@chapter Basic Usage

@cindex usage, basic

@section Invocation

Milkyway N-Body is controlled through various command line
arguments. For more detail @xref{Arguments}.

The @samp{--input-file} argument is always necessary and is the
primary way to control simulations. The input file is a Lua script
which sets the parameters and inital system for the simulation.

The @samp{--output-file} specifies a file to write the final body
positions and velocities to. The positions will by default be in lbr
coordinates. The @samp{--output-cartesian} option can switch this to
galactic coordinates.

To calculate a likelihood, an input histogram may be specified with
@samp{--histogram-file}. If the @samp{--histoout-file} argument is
given, a generated histogram will be written to the given file.

Arguments not used by the main application are forwarded to the Lua
input script.  Seed bound to ``argSeed''. This way you can easily
script batches of simulations while changing any parameter you would
like.

@section Input File Description
An input file consists of a Lua script which optionally handles
arguments passed to it, and must contain several functions to define a
simulation. Various utility functions and types are defined for
convenience. These functions set up the initial bodies, specify
parameters for the simulation such as timestep size and run time, and
specify an external potential to apply. This allows for running
totally arbitrary configurations of particles.

@xref{Required Functions} for which functions are required.

@xref{Utility Functions} for information on other tools.

@xref{Custom Lua Types} for information on types.



@section Running
@subsection Checking Progress
If built with @code{ENABLE_CURSES}, the @samp{--progress} flag will
continuously update the terminal with some progress
information. Progress can also be viewed from the visualizer. See @xref{Graphics}

@subsection Checkpointing
If running as a BOINC application, checkpointing will occur according
to BOINC preferences.

Without BOINC, checkpointing will occur every 15 minutes by
default. The checkpoint interval can be controlled with the
@samp{--checkpoint-interval} option, which takes the checkpointing
interval in seconds.

By default checkpoints will be written to a file called
@samp{nbody_checkpoint}. The @samp{--checkpoint} can be used to use a
different file. This can also be used to resume a simulation from an
arbitrary checkpoint file.

If you do not want to resume from a checkpoint, the
@samp{--ignore-checkpoint} will ensure a fresh new simulation will be run.

On the end of the simulation, the checkpoint file will be
deleted. This behaviour can be surpressed with the
@samp{--no-clean-checkpoint} flag.




@node Graphics
@subsection Graphics
A simple N-Body visualizer is available from
@code{milkyway_nbody_graphics}. Invoking the main program with the
@samp{--visualizer} option will launch the visualizer along with the
simulation. @samp{--visualizer-args} flag is available for passing
additional options to the visualizer launched this way.

The graphics program can be separately launched to view any number of
currently running simulations.

N-body simulations running with graphics support create a shared
memory segment called ``milkyway_nbody_#'' where # starts at 0 and
goes up. The # will be the instance ID which you can refer to the
simulation by. Launching the graphics with @samp{--instance-id} flag
will choose which simulation to view.

Various mouse and keyboard controls exist for the simulation. You can
get help with these by pressing the 'h' or '?' key.

If run with the @samp{--fullscreen}, the graphics will behave more
appropriately for a screensaver.


@node Algorithmic Considerations
@chapter Algorithmic Considerations
@cindex algorithmic considerations
@cindex algorithm
@cindex Barnes-Hut

Milkyway N-Body uses the Barnes-Hut algorithm, or optionally can use
the direct summation.

@node{Opening Criteria}
@unnumberedsec Opening Criteria
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@headitem Name @tab Description

@item @code{"BH86"}
@tab Use classic Barnes-Hut opening angle

@item @code{"SW93"}
@tab Use sum squares criterion from S&W '93 paper

@item @code{"NewCriterion"}
@tab Barnes newer opening criterion using the center of mass offset

@item @code{"Exact"}
@tab Use @math{O(n^2)} direct N-body calculation
@end multitable


@node Potential Descriptions
@chapter Potential Descriptions
@cindex external potentials
@cindex potential
@cindex model
Description of available galaxy potential models with parameter
descriptions. For usage, @xref{Potential}

@table @dfn
@item Spherical Models
@cindex spherical

@table @dfn
@item Sphere with scale length:
@cindex spherical

@comment Why doesn't \frac work?
@tex
$$\phi = - G M_{sphere} / (r + r_0)$$
@end tex
@table @code
@item @math{M_{sphere}}
total mass
@item @math{r0}
scale length
@end table
@end table

@item Disk Models
@cindex disk
@cindex Miyamoto-Nagai disk

@anchor {Miyamoto-Nagai disk}
@table @dfn
@item	Miyamoto-Nagai Disk
@tex
$$\phi = -G M_{disk} / \sqrt{X_{gc}^2 + Y_{gc}^2 + (a + \sqrt{Z_{gc}^2 + b^2})^2}$$
@end tex
@table @code
@item @math{M_{disk}}
total mass
@item @math{a}
scale length
@item @math{b}
scale height
@end table

@anchor {Exponential disk}
@item	Exponential Disk
@tex
$$\phi = -G M_{disk} ((1-\exp(-r/b])/r)$$
@end tex
@tex
$$r \equiv \sqrt{X_{gc}^2 + Y_{gc}^2 + Z_{gc}^2}$$
@end tex
@table @code
@item @math{M_{disk}}
total mass
@item @math{b}
scale length
@end table
@end table

@item Halo Models
@cindex halo
@cindex logarithmic halo
@table @dfn
@anchor {Logarithmic halo}
@item Logarithmic Halo
@tex
$$\phi = v_{halo}^2 \ln(X_{gc}^2 + Y_{gc}^2 + (Z_{gc}^2/q^2) + d^2)$$
@end tex
@table @code
@item @math{v_{halo}}
halo speed (contains total halo mass)
@item @math{q}
Z axis flattening
@item @math{d}
scale length
@end table

@cindex NFW halo
@anchor {NFW halo}
@item  NFW halo
@tex
$$\phi = -(((a v_{cmax}^2)/0.216) \log(1+(r/a)))/r$$
@end tex

@table @code
@item @math{v_{cmax}}
halo speed (contains total halo mass)
@item @math{q}
scale length
@end table

@cindex Triaxial halo
@anchor {Triaxial halo}
@item Triaxial Halo
@tex
$$\phi = v_{halo}^2 \ln(C_1 X_{gc}^2 + C_2 Y_{gc}^2 + C_3 X_{gc} Y_{gc} + (Z_{gc}/q_z)^2 + r_{halo}^2)$$
@end tex
@tex
$$C_1 \equiv (cos^2\phi/q_1^2) + (\sin^2\phi/q_2^2)$$
@end tex
@tex
$$C_2 \equiv (cos^2\phi/q_2^2) + (\sin^2\phi/q_1^2)$$
@end tex
@tex
$$C_3 \equiv 2\sin\phi \cos\phi ((1/q_1^2) - (1/q_2^2))$$
@end tex

@table @code
@item @math{v_{halo}}
halo speed (contains total halo mass)
@item @math{q_1}
flattening in direction 1
@item @math{q_2}
flattening in direction 2 (Usually held at 1 to eliminate degeneracy)
@item @math{q_z}
Z axis flattening
@item @math{r_{halo}}
scale length
@item @math{φ}
triaxiality angle
@end table

@end table
@end table


@node Required Functions
@chapter Required Functions
@cindex usage

An N-Body simulation is set up by writing several small functions in
the input Lua script. This allows for a totally arbitrary initial
distribution of particles and flexible calculations for any parameters.

@deffn required function makeContext ()
Returns the context for controlling the simulation. This configures
basic items such as timestep size and evolution time.
@xref{NBodyCtx}
@end deffn

@deffn required function makeBodies (context, potential)
Takes the NBodyCtx for the simulation, and the Potential if used
Return an arbitrary number of table of bodies which will run in the simulation.
@xref{Body}
@end deffn

@deffn required function makePotential ()
Returns the external potential to apply to the simulation.
Options are one of the following:

@itemize @bullet
@item
nil. A generic N-body simulation with no external potential.

@item
A galaxy external potential defined by the Potential type. @xref{Potential}

@item
A Lua function which takes 3 arguments (x, y, z) positions in standard
galactic coordinates and returns 3 numbers for the (x, y, z)
components of the acceleration. Invalid to use when running with OpenCL.
@end itemize
@end deffn

@deffn optional function makeHistogram ()
Parameters for a milkyway histogram if generating it.
@xref{HistogramParams}
@end deffn


@node Custom Lua Types
@chapter Lua Userdata Types

@cindex types, Lua

Items marked with a * are optional and will use a default value if omitted.
@cindex index entry, another

@node NBodyCtx
@unnumberedsec NBodyCtx

@deftp NBodyCtx NBodyCtx
Simulation context controlling simulation parameters such as timesteps.
@end deftp

@deftypeivar NBodyCtx number timestep
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx number timeEvolve
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx number theta
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx number eps2
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx number treeRSize
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx number sunGCDist
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx stringenum criterion
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx boolean useQuad
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx boolean allowIncest
@end deftypeivar
@deftypeivar NBodyCtx boolean quietErrors
@end deftypeivar


@defmethod NBodyCtx create(argTable)
Create a new NBodyCtx with parameters given by arg table.
This is to use fake named arguments.
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{timestep}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Size of timesteps to use in gigayears
@item @code{timeEvolve}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Time to run simulation in gigayears
@item @code{theta}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Barnes-Hut opening angle (ignored with "Exact" criterion")
@item @code{eps2}
@tab @code{number}
@tab @math{\epsilon^2} in kiloparsecs@math{^2} (Softening parameter)
@item @code{treeRSize}*
@tab @code{number}
@tab Initial size guess of tree root cell
@item @code{sunGCDist}*
@tab @code{number}
@tab Distance from galactic center to Earth in kiloparsecs
@item @code{criterion}
@tab @code{string enum}
@tab Select formula for calculating critical radius. For options, @xref{Opening Criteria}
@item @code{useQuad}*
@tab @code{boolean}
@tab Use quadrupole moments for body-cell force calculations
@item @code{allowIncest}*
@tab @code{boolean}
@tab Treat tree incest as fatal.
Incest is when a particle does not encounter itself while calculating forces on it
@item @code{quietErrors}*
@tab @code{boolean}
@tab Silence printing of certain errors, such as tree incest.
     Most useful when treating incest as non-fatal.
@end multitable
@end defmethod

@node Body
@unnumberedsec Body

@deftp Body Body
Userdata representing a particle
@end deftp

@deftypeivar Body number mass
Mass of particle in units of @math{1/(222288.47 M_{sun})}
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Body Vector position
Position of particle in standard galactic coordinates in kiloparsecs
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Body Vector velocity
Velocity of particle in kiloparsecs / gigayear
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Body boolean ignore
Exclude particle from likelihood calculations (e.g. true if dark matter particle)
@end deftypeivar


@defmethod Body create(argTable)
Create a new Body with given parameters given by arg table. This is to use fake named arguments.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{mass}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Mass of body in units of @math{1/(222288.47 M_{sun})}. This is to get G =
1 with distances in kiloparsecs and time in gigayears
@item @code{position}
@tab @code{Vector}
@tab Postion of body in Cartesian, standard galactic coordinates
@item @code{velocity}
@tab @code{Vector}
@tab Velocity of body in kiloparsecs / gigayear
@item @code{ignore}*
@tab @code{boolean}
@tab Ignore body if doing a likelihood calculation (e.g. dark matter particle = true)
@end multitable
@end defmethod

@node Potential
@unnumberedsec Potential
@deftp Potential Potential
Userdata representing a static Milkyway potential
@end deftp

@defmethod Potential create(argTable)
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{spherical}
@tab @code{Spherical}
@tab Spherical bulge component of galaxy potential
@item @code{halo}
@tab @code{Halo}
@tab Halo component of galaxy potential
@item @code{disk}
@tab @code{Disk}
@tab Disk component of galaxy potential
@end multitable
@end defmethod

@node Spherical
@unnumberedsec Spherical
@deftp Spherical Spherical
Userdata containing parameters describing galaxy's bulge
@end deftp

@deftypeivar Spherical stringenum type
Type of bulge
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Spherical number mass
Bulge mass
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Spherical number scale
Bulge scale length
@end deftypeivar

@defmethod Spherical create
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{mass}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Mass of bulge
@item @code{scaleLength}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale length @math{a} of bulge
@end multitable
@end defmethod

@node Disk
@unnumberedsec Disk
@deftp Disk Disk
Userdata containing parameters describing galaxy's disk
@end deftp

@defmethod Disk miyamotoNagai()
Create a Disk userdata with Miyamoto-Nagai disk model parameters. @xref{Miyamoto-Nagai disk}
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{mass}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Mass of disk
@item @code{scaleLength}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale length @math{a}
@item @code{scaleHeight}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale height @math{b}
@end multitable
@end defmethod


@defmethod Disk exponential()
Create a Disk userdata with Exponential disk parameters. @xref{Exponential disk}
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{mass}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Mass of disk
@item @code{scaleLength}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale length @math{b}
@end multitable
@end defmethod


@node Halo
@unnumberedsec Halo
@deftp Disk Disk
Usedata containing parameters describing galaxy's halo
@end deftp

@defmethod Halo logarithmic()
Create a Halo userdata describing a logarithmic halo.
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{vhalo}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Halo speed (contains total halo mass)
@item @code{scaleLength}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale length @math{d} of halo
@item @code{flattenZ}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Z-axis flattening
@end multitable
@end defmethod


@defmethod Halo nfw()
Create a Halo userdata describing an NFW halo. @xref{NFW halo}
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{vhalo}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Halo speed (contains total halo mass)
@item @code{scaleLength}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale length @math{d} of halo
@end multitable
@end defmethod


@defmethod Halo triaxial()
Create a Halo userdata describing a Triaxial halo. @xref{Triaxial halo}
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{vhalo}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Halo speed (contains total halo mass)
@item @code{scaleLength}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale length @math{r_{halo}} of halo
@item @code{flattenX}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Flattening in direction 1
@item @code{flattenY}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Flattening in direction 2
@item @code{flattenZ}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Z-Axis flattening
@item @code{triaxAngle}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Triaxiality angle @math{φ}
@end multitable
@end defmethod


@node DSFMT
@unnumberedsec DSFMT
@cindex DSFMT
@cindex PRNG
@cindex random
@cindex seed

@deftp DSFMT DSFMT
Pseudorandom number generator state.
@end deftp

@defmethod DSFMT create([@var{seed}=time(NULL)])
Create a new DSFMT pseudorandom number generator. If omitted (or nil),
it will use a time seed.
@end defmethod

@defmethod DSFMT random()
Return a new random number between 0.0 and 1.0
@end defmethod

@node Vector
@unnumberedsec Vector
@cindex Vector
@deftp Vector Vector
Userdata describing a 3 component vector
@end deftp

@deftypeivar Vector number x
X-component of vector
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Vector number y
Y-component of vector
@end deftypeivar

@deftypeivar Vector number z
Z-component of vector
@end deftypeivar

@defmethod Vector create(@var{x}, @var{y}, @var{z})
Create a new vector with components x, y, z
@end defmethod

@defmethod Vector abs()
Returns the absolute value of the vector
@end defmethod

@defmethod Vector length()
Returns the length of the vector
@end defmethod

@defmethod Vector cross(@var{a}, @var{b})
Returns the cross product of vectors @var{a} and @var{b}
@end defmethod

@defmethod Vector dist(@var{a}, @var{b})
Returns the distance between vectors @var{a} and @var{b}
@end defmethod




@node HistogramParams
@unnumberedsec HistogramParams
@cindex histogram
@cindex HistogramParams
@deftp HistogramParams HistogramParams
Used to specify histogram parameters for binning along a stream in
Lambda. Currently not that generally useful.
@end deftp

@defmethod HistogramParams create()
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{phi}
@tab @code{number}
@tab  @math{φ}
@item @code{theta}
@tab @code{number}
@tab @math{θ}
@item @code{startRaw}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Lambda to try start bins if creating a milkyway histogram
@item @code{startRaw}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Lambda to try ending bins if creating a milkyway histogram
@item @code{center}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Center of histogram in lambda
@item @code{binSize}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Bin size in lambda in degrees
@end multitable
@end defmethod


@node Utility Functions
@chapter Utility Functions

@cindex utilities

Miscellaneous useful functions for coordinate conversions, model
creation, etc.

@section Predefined models

@unnumberedsubsec predefinedModels.generatePlummer()
Returns a table of bodies in a Plummer sphere distribution.
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .7
@headitem Argument @tab Type @tab Description
@item @code{nbody}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Number of bodies to put in the Plummer sphere
@item @code{mass}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Total mass of Plummer sphere. Will be evenly distributed among
particles in model.
@item @code{scaleRadius}
@tab @code{number}
@tab Scale radius for Plummer sphere
@item @code{position}
@tab @code{Vector}
@tab Initial position for center of Plummer sphere
@item @code{velocity}
@tab @code{Vector}
@tab Initial velocity for center of Plummer sphere
@item @code{ignore}*
@tab @code{bool}
@tab The bodies in this model will be tagged to be ignored in
likelihood calculations. i.e. this is a dark matter model.
@item @code{prng}
@tab @code{DSFMT}
@tab Random number generator to use

@end multitable


@section Utility functions
@deffn utility function plummerTimestepIntegral(@var{smalla}, @var{biga}, @var{Md}, [@var{step}=1.0-e5])
Calculate a timestep for two Plummer spheres where @var{smalla} is the
smaller scale radius, @var{biga} is the larger scale radius, @var{Md}
is the enclosed mass of the big sphere within the smaller's radius,
and the optional argument @var{step} is the radial integral step size.
@end deffn

@deffn utility function reverseOrbit(potential, position, velocity, tstop, dt)
Do a reverse orbit in a Milkyway potential from a particle.
@end deffn

@deffn utility function calculateEps2(@var{n}, @var{r0})
Calculates the softening parameter squared for a Plummer sphere using
the formula
@tex
$$\epsilon^2$$
@end tex
@tex
$$\epsilon \equiv r_0 / (10 \sqrt{n});$$
@end tex
where @math{r_0} is the scale length and @math{n} is the number of bodies.
@end deffn


@deffn utility function calculateTimestep(@var{mass}, @var{r0})
Calculate a timestep for a Plummer sphere using the formula
@tex
$$(1/10)^2 * \sqrt{(4\pi/3) r_0^3} / m$$
@end tex
where @math{r_0} is the scale lengt hand @math{m} is the mass.
@end deffn

@deffn utility function lbrToCartesian(@var{ctx}, @var{position}, [@var{useRadians}=false])
Takes an @ref{NBodyCtx} and a position and converts it to
galactic coordinates. Optional argument indicates that the l and b in
the input vector are in radians.
@end deffn

@deffn utility function solarMassToMassUnits(@var{mass})
Convert a mass in solar masses to one in simulation units.
@end deffn

@deffn utility function massUnitsToSolarMass(@var{mass})
Convert a mass in solar masses to one in simulation units.
@end deffn

@deffn utility function lyToKiloparsecs(@var{length})
Convert a distance in lightyears to kiloparsecs
@end deffn

@deffn utility function mToKiloparsecs(@var{length})
Convert a distance in meters to kiloparsecs
@end deffn


@node Milkyway N-Body Invocation
@appendix Command Line Arguments for Milkyway N-Body Invocation
@cindex command line arguments
@cindex arguments (command line)
@cindex options (command line)
@cindex switches (command line)
@cindex startup (command line arguments)
@cindex invocation (command line arguments)

Milkyway N-Body uses various command line switches to control the
simulation and output. Extra arguments are forwarded on to the Lua
input file. All arguments accept long form (two dashes,
e.g. --argument-name) and most accept short form as well (one dash,
e.g. -a).

@node Arguments
@appendixsec Arguments

  Additional information and argumments can be obtained from running with the @var{--help} argument.

@table @samp
@item -f @var{file}
@itemx --input-file=@var{file}
@cindex lua, input, command-line argument
Use the @var{file} as the primary input Lua script

@item -h @var{file}
@itemx --histogram-file=@var{file}
@cindex histogram, input, command-line argument
Use the @var{file} as input histogram to match

@item -z @var{file}
@itemx --histoout-file=@var{file}
@cindex histogram, output, command-line argument
Write a result histogram to file @var{file}

@item -o @var{file}
@itemx --output-file=@var{file}
@cindex output, command-line argument
Write resulting body status to file @var{file}

@item -x
@itemx --output-cartesian
@cindex output, command-line argument, coordinates
Write body positions to output in standard galactic coordinates
instead of the default lbr.

@item -v
@itemx --verify-file
@cindex input, command-line argument, BOINC
Only verify that everything is valid with the input file for testing
workunits. Tests for errors and prints some information about the
context. Do not actually run a simulation.

@item -n @var{nthread}
@itemx --nthreads @var{nthread}
@cindex command-line argument, OpenMP, threads
Select uses @var{nthread} threads to run standard simulation with. Ignored if
built without OpenMP support.

@item -e @var{seed}
@itemx --seed @var{seed}
@cindex command-line argument, random, seed
Passes the random number seed @var{seed} to input Lua script

@item --verbose
@cindex command-line argument, debug
Print more detailed information than normally would happen. Combined
with --version, will print commit ID



@end table


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

